Dealing with a Flood
BEFORE

    Find out whether your home is located in a flood-prone area.

    Move essential items to higher floors to keep them above water level.

    Block water entry points and install waterproof seals on openings at ground level.

    Stock up on drinking water and food supplies.

    Move vehicles to a safe location.

    Turn off gas and electricity.

    Close doors, windows, and shutters.

    Store toxic substances and as many perishable or putrescible items as possible out of water's reach.

    Anchor tanks and furniture securely.

    Keep important documents stored high and dry.

    Stay informed about rising water levels (radio, public alerts).

DURING

    Follow instructions from technical and emergency services.

    Move to previously identified high points (upper floors, hills).

    Signal your presence from upper floors and wait for rescue or evacuation orders.

    Do not return to the affected area unless officially authorized.

    Avoid traveling through flooded zones and do not approach flooded areas (banks and structures may have been weakened by the water and could collapse).

    If you are evacuated, bring personal ID and essential medications.

    Assist elderly and disabled individuals.

    Avoid going to pick up your children from school.

AFTER

    Ventilate rooms as soon as possible.

    Disinfect all surfaces and objects that came into contact with flood water.

    Remove all materials that were submerged in water (drywall, insulation, etc.).

    Be cautious when moving through previously flooded areas:

        Roads may still be muddy or unstable, and collapses may occur.

        Mud may be thick and could cause you to become stuck.

    Heat the building as soon as possible.

    Notify your insurance provider as soon as possible in case of damage.

    Only restore electricity to a dry installation and after it has been checked by a professional.

    Prioritize giving assistance to neighbors, children, the elderly, or people with disabilities.
	